He picked up, handed me his key, said, best of luck to you, and walked out.
Really didn't spend very much time seeing him after I got elected.
Where are the offices for the student body government?
They're in the Coldus Building.
And I think their student activities and student government and all that kind of stuff all are together on one of the ends of Coldus.
And with what administrator does the student body president most closely relate?
Right now, there is a full-time advisor that works with student government.
We're pretty small staff.
We have an administrative assistant, we have an accountant, a graduate assistant, and a couple of student workers.
But on the whole, it's a pretty small staff.
Because that's all new, that's relatively new in the last two or three years.
What kind of budget?
Well, that's all stuff that we've had to relearn because
Before I even give the answer to that, most student body presidents have not ever run any committee.
and I'm not talking a thousand member organization, I'm talking most people haven't run a forty person organization and that's not necessarily credentials for being a part, being the student body president and I'm not making that credentials for being student body president.
But most of them don't have a lot of budgetary skills and things like that.
They're the things that you have to do when you manage a big organization and I never mentioned that as core commander but that is part of it.
found out that we're being allocated $126,000, $136,000, and it's increasing, but that's for some salaries, and I guess actually never mind, it's about 156, but that's for some salaries and student worker jobs.
They're actually spending a half million dollars a year.
So when you take out the salaries, we're able to fund about 10% of our operations, and the rest of it has to be fundraised.
And how would you compare the stress and strain and time consumption of Corps Commander to Sue Monopressor?
Very different.
I don't think that one was necessarily busier than the other.
I think they were just different, very different places.
I spent a lot of time this year being much more consumed, eight to five.
I didn't have an office as Corps Commander, where here I did.
You're working with much more, I think, a lot more adults as student body prisoners, so I found that my schedule was much more effective to be, you know, 7.30 in the morning to 5, 6, 7 o'clock at night, whatever that needs to be.
The first is, you know, being court commander, you know, I'm busy from about the hours of 6 to 8 in the morning.
And then maybe not busy again until 4 o'clock in the afternoon.
And then it may be midnight before you get done in the Corps, doing different things, checking people out in terms of study and stuff like that.
So different hours, very different hours and very different skills that are used.
Some are similar, but some are different.
The focus is very different.
And the activities you're doing are very different.
Managing a group.
versus advocating views are not the same.
Which is more satisfying?
That's tough.
You know, I don't know.
I really pride myself in being corps commander, and that's not to take away from being student body president because it was a selected position where, you know, your peers and people above you clearly had to feel you were effective to be in that position.
And so I think there's a lot of pride in that.
I take a lot of pride in that.
I mean, I don't think it's something you brag about.
But at the same time, I think it's something to be proud of.
Student body president, it's a lot more of a popularity contest.
Being the student body president is different than being elected the student body president.
And I think the pride that I feel completing this year is a lot more than what I felt being elected.
Because you're...
maybe the merits are not necessarily the same to be elected for student body president.
So I think the end of the year is more satisfying than the beginning where I thought that being corps commander at the beginning was a lot more special and stuff like that being selected.
All right, same kind of question.
As student body president, of what event were you most proud and then what was the goofy, was there a goofy or silly reality?
Oh, I think I'm proud of the fact that we,
We were able to do so much in terms of really reorganizing that organization, really try to again do some of the same things I've done in the Corps and modernize some of the things that are available in student government.
We completely wrote the standard, 150, 200 page standard from scratch.
We did a lot of things, and that's in addition to working on issues and accomplishing some things.
I think that's neat when you're able to work on a project and complete it.
It's neat and special.
The flip side of that is you also realize you're not the boss.
You don't have a lot of authority, and if you're going to walk into somebody's office and tell them how to get something done, you're completely wrong.
You can't do that.
Whereas the Corps commander has more authority.
Oh, absolutely.
The Corps commander definitely has more authority.
I could tell people to do things in the Corps and expect that it be done and have repercussions for not doing it.
There are no repercussions necessarily when a student body president tells you to do something and you don't do it.
It's much more influence based.
And so that's, you know, you have to learn that and that's tough.
You can't just walk in and assume that people are going to expect that.
So silly.
I don't know if anything was silly as much as it was just really changing the learning experience.
Did anybody come to you with a goofy idea, proposal?
Oh, everybody had everything.
The funny thing is, is much more people were consumed this year about the effects of bonfire.
So I've dealt with a whole lot of people asking about that.
And I've had everything, had a guy that came in
Well, I've had one that thought I was being paid off by the administration.
I said, I wish I had.
I had another guy that came in and wanted me to really just go against and protest the administration on that issue.
And he said, if you do that, we'll even erect a statue in your name.
And I just kind of sat there and laughed.
And there are lots of things that come around like that.
There was one guy who came in who said he was a...
apparently a very important person here, early 90s.
I said okay and invited him in to talk.
Told me how he was friends with about five or six different celebrities and had actually, you know, been the person that wrote up the award for distinguished, you know, distinguished faculty achievement award for Dr. Sotland only to find out that Dr. Sotland didn't even know who he was.
So, you know, you find all kinds of people that you come across and they're funny.
You have to just take it with a grain of salt and move on.
In either position, did anybody ever attempt to persuade you to do anything that was clearly inappropriate?
That's tough.
Politician or wealthy person or?
You know, I've dealt with a lot of different situations, and so that's why I think it's a tough answer.
I had situations where a person
a fairly wealthy person who's a former student here, he and I don't see eye to eye.
When I was running for student body president, he called many people and asked them not that, you know, one, to stop funding me until I came and talked to him.
Two, said that if there was anybody else that wanted to know how to get the corps cadets vote, to call this man and that he would help them do that.
So that was a real big introduction, I guess, into a world of strange things out there.
There were a lot of, obviously, a lot of persuasions for me to do certain things with this bonfire stuff.
It's not like anybody walked into my office and handed me a check and said, here, do this.
I've never, ever seen that.
Did any self-appointed person try to persuade you to appoint their nephew, their grandson into any position?
Yeah, there is always some of that.
There is some of that, believe it or not.
And some of it's students who put pressure on you, which I think is a little bit more understandable because that's your constituents.
Oh, yeah.
But there were former students that did that too.
Did a regent.
No, I never had anybody from a region.
In fact, they were probably the most supportive.
Or a politician, elected?
Never had an elected official do that, but certainly had people that you would consider influential members of the A&M community or influential members of the former students do that.
As you look back on both of these important positions, would there be any value of having
advisory discussions with some recent former corps commanders and former student body presidents with a new one?
I don't know.
That's tough because I've noticed with these positions, more so with student body president than with corps commander, I think most corps commanders I tend to see are very open to hearing what you have to say also because I think they
the authority is different, plus your liability is different.
The more responsibility you have, you're clearly more liable too.
So, Corps commanders I've tend to found to be a little bit more open-minded to an extent.
student body presidents, both of them are fifth-year seniors that have been around here for a while, and this is the last thing they're doing, tend to be a little bit more hard-headed, tend to be a little bit more stubborn in their thoughts, and so, and everybody tends to think that the other person doesn't really know what it was like to be here, or what it's like to be there this year, so I don't know.
I'm not sure if it would really be beneficial, and I also tend to see at least over, I mean,
have stayed in touch and are very aware and good communication with most of the student body presidents and corps commanders at least in the last five, six years.
And some of us really get along and some of us really don't.
So, you know, it's back and forth and some people don't get along with others, so it's interesting.
You're not wearing a senior in Aggie ring.
I took it off today by accident.
I was working out in the yard, so.
All right.
What did you feel like when you first put on an Aggie ring?
It was neat.
It was a sense of accomplishment and I think you really begin to feel that you're part of that kind of alumni group that's out there and really begin to feel that you've kind of left your legacy on this place.
So I think it's neat.
Now you don't have any Aggie ring stories yet about having lost it or somebody at some faraway place spotted it or anything like that?
No, the only thing I have for my Aggie ring is one of my, the cat knocked it into the sink and the disposal got turned on and it's already been bruised up a little bit.
I don't know.
That's a good one.
I don't know if it's good, but it's certainly, it's certainly beat up my ring a little bit.
Among the most touching ring stories I've gotten, a fellow D-Day mourning.
Mm-hmm.
The gunfire, he's on the beach, and he's looking up like this, and all at once another hand comes down on his hand, and it is an Aggie ring on top of his Aggie ring, and this is a fellow who had just seen the bombardment.
Here come some mortar shells, and he wanted to be sure, this fellow, the second one, wanted to be sure that this Aggie didn't look up again.
Never seen each other before, but I thought, hey, that's touching.
Well, there was, I mean, there are some neat ring stories out there.
One of my friends, we were getting ready, I think, I don't know how long this tradition of dunking a ring has been around.
It's not very long, but maybe 80s, maybe somewhere around there at the most.
So nonetheless, one of my friends had gotten, he's a class older than me,
and had just got his ring.
And I had said, hey, you're going to go dunk your ring.
And needless to say, I never did dunk my ring.
But anyway, the reason why is in this story.
I noticed, I said, so are you going to do it?
And he said, no.
And then I looked down at his ring because he'd just gotten his.
And he wasn't wearing his A-ring.
He was wearing an old A-ring.
And so I didn't really know what was going on.
And he said, well, let me tell you a story.
And I said, okay.
He sat down and he said, well, here's the thing.
He said, this ring is my grandfather's ring.
I think he was class of early 40s somewhere.
I'm not really sure where.
And his grandfather had served in World War II.
Had actually, I think he was with one of the aviation units there in the Army Air Corps.
He wasn't a pilot, I don't think.
But I think he was on one of the airplanes.
Maybe he was a...
Maybe he was operating one of the guns or something like that.
The plane had gotten shot down, so he parachuted down and was fighting somewhere, somewhere in, maybe he caught up with some French down there and started fighting, but nonetheless got caught, I guess got hit by a bullet.
and kind of passed out for a while.
And when he woke up next, he was on his way to German POW camp.
So he'd realized, and I think they were all very aware that Germans would take any kind of valuables they had.
And so I'm not really sure how he had its ring, but managed to hide it and hold onto it for a while.
And he was actually a captive in those POW camps for over 100 days.
I think it was, I'm not sure if it was quite 150 days, but it was somewhere up there.
And he had managed to sew it into his sleeve every day right before they had to wake up, took it off every night and wore it.
And so it saved all his, wound up escaping anyway in the middle of the winter over to the Russian front.
The Russians had found him and flew him over back over to England and caught a ride back from England to the United States.
And, you know, obviously his family's very proud of that and proud of the fact that he not only served his country, but, you know, is a hero to them.
And they saved onto his uniforms and all this kind of stuff.
His grandfather, I think, died when he was about 10.
And his, you know, my friend, his grandson had managed to find everything you could imagine of his grandfather's, everything, but never found his Aggie ring, never found that.
And so I think he'd taken for granted that either it had gotten lost or something like that.
Maybe, I'm not really sure what had happened to it.
And so after his first semester, he came back.
and obviously in the first semester being Christmas time come back his grandmother had presented with the ring and said we held on to it for ten years because he said your grandfather knew that you'd be an Aggie and would have been proud to see you wear it so you know he said that and he said you asked me if I'm gonna go dunk my ring he says no he says you know people today don't realize that so many people have so many stories like that that's not it's not a unique story and so many people gave their lives and believe so much in that ring not that it's you know
Not that it's everything, but it's so much a representative of who they are as an individual that he says, I'm not going to put in a pitcher of beer.
He says, I might drink a few beers over it, but I'm not going to put it in any pitcher of beer.
And so I've never done that since, but there are stories out there like that.
What are the key events, the key activities at this institution that build Aggie Spirit?
Well, I think one of the first ones, you know, we started off talking about was Fish Camp.
That's obviously a big activity that builds some of that foundation because not everybody here had a family member that came to A&M.
Obviously, if you participate in any of those big organizations, the Corps, I think, is pretty self-explanatory and takes care of itself.
There are a lot of freshman organizations these days, I think, that can have almost about 600 people total across all the organizations in there.
I think that builds a lot of that experience.
You've got Greek organizations.
And they're all different, but the thing that's unique about all those different organizations is they all participate in the traditions.
You know, even though they may be different, they all go to Silver Taps together.
Even though they may be different, they all sit together at muster, or they all go to the football games together, or they all go to midnight yell practice together, or they all go to whatever it may be, participate in some of the more recent traditions like, you know, big event.
They may all have a group that goes out there and does big event together.
And so, you know, I think that's the things that keep some of that stuff still going is that they don't all have their own traditions.
They all share the same traditions, just participate in different ways.
What have you learned so far at A&M that you think is going to be important to you all your life?
I think a lot of things that are taught here,
that are important is integrity and work ethic and character and things like that.
And, you know, obviously there's always a lot to learn and improve on in that, but I think that's all important.
You know, I could sit here and talk about grades, talk about courses and talk about all that kind of stuff, and it's important, but there has to be a foundation there.
You're not going to do well unless you have a work ethic.
You're not going to really learn unless you really have integrity on yourself to go out there and learn it.
and not cheat, and not do anything like that.
So you have to have some foundations and some fundamental principles that you believe on, and I think a lot of those are taught here.
You have to develop them yourself, but they're practiced and they're believed on, and I think on the whole people take a lot of pride in that here, that there's more than just a book.
There is something out there.
I mean, people call it the Aggie Spirit.
I think that's
You know, people use that term loosely, but I think if you were to really get to the essence of what that means, I think a lot of it is that.
It's a definition of an individual.
It's a definition of some character and things like that that define those individuals.
And you see it in all the aspects they do.
So, you know, if you ask me what I learned, I think having those things are important.
Are there some people that you know, some individuals that you now would look back on in your A&M years to whom you're really grateful?
You know, there are plenty of people I'm grateful for.
I mean, there's that man, Cliff Dugash, who brought me here, who now works here.
He's done a lot and helped me a lot.
There's a man by the name of Colonel Jake Betty.
He was actually a Yale leader with Rick Perry.
Betty?
Betty, B-E-T-T-Y.
Okay.
Who is actually a class of 70, I guess 73, or 70, no, is it 71?
I think it's 71, but I'm not sure.
I don't know.
I keep, it's early 70s anyway.
And so he now works in the commandant's office and has done so much to help me, just mentor me and always brings me over to dinner and always helps do that stuff.
And that was neat, having a military officer that did that for you.
I think it gave me a very different perspective on things.
Anybody in political science?
There was a teacher that I really appreciated.
His name was Dr. Tucker, who did a lot.
Really did a lot in terms of really making me do real work, replicating some studies and doing stuff like that.
I appreciated that.
But I think the people who have really done a lot for me outside that are people that sometimes I've never met.
and sometimes for people who I've only met once or twice.
Those are the ones that I really, really value a lot.
You know, I've never had the opportunity to meet John Koldis, but a phenomenal individual.
You would treasure that.
And we're trying to meet a time, trying to find time to set up.
He's going to be here to, we're not him, but his wife will be here tomorrow, I think, and trying to set up a time to meet her.
But you know about people out there like that, and I think it's neat to see that kind of quality
of people who believe in this place and exhibit that every day.
Tell her that I told you that a chance to chat with him would be mutually.
I was one of the interviewee, interviewers.
Okay.
He came from East Texas State of all places.
Really?
Because at first I thought, gee, we're going to, we're thinking about hiring somebody at East Texas State.
No, he is splendid, splendid, splendid.
Grew up in Gary, Indiana, the child of a steel mill immigrant, I believe, and played football at Arkansas State and almost, well, he turned down a line coach, a defensive coaching job at Amarillo High that Bum Phillips took.
Now, do you know who Bum Phillips is?
I sure do.
No, no, he's splendid.
If you were a consultant,
to the A&M leadership today, what advice would you give them about guiding A&M as an institution to even greater success?
That's a wonderful question.
Really begin to think outside of the box.
Boy, this is such a tough one.
I have so many different things, and it's hard to describe that.
It's taken me a while to even have any concept of that.
There is a lot to the school.
Understanding, one, what it is that you value out of this school I think is important.
What are those things that you treasure?
What are the things that you hold in highest esteem?
Because they should be the foundation and sounding board for the things that you do.
And I don't know if that's always clear right now.
I don't know if the things that students and teachers and everybody else that's a part of this university
We talk about a lot of things, we throw a lot of words out there very loosely, but I don't know if we've really honestly put that down.
Put that down into words, put that down into something concrete.
So evaluating that is very important.
I think one of the most visible examples of how challenging that really is to do that has been to try to figure out how to take a tradition that's fallen apart in terms of bonfire and rebuild that.
The conversations that we've had, and we've spent hundreds of hours really working on that issue, and I can't tell you how hard it has taken us.
And we're talking about former students, not necessarily people who are totally ignorant to what it is A&M has to offer.
People who are very aware of what's going on.
trying to put those definitions of the Aggie Spirit, put those definitions of things that they feel are valuable from the experience you gain from being A&M into words.
That's a tough thing to do.
And what is the benefit gained from that?
And if you can figure those two things out,
you know that you really are on your way to understanding what is important because the bottom line is this is this is just a short tenure here and it is a learning experience it's not everything it should be a foundation for so many things in your life but it's just an experience and you have to remember that you know
All the little projects that we do from day to day are not everything.
It's okay to fail.
There's nothing wrong with failing.
Just don't make stupid mistakes.
You know, somebody once told me, you can correct ignorance.
You can't correct stupidity.
And I think there's a lot of truth to that.
This is, I mean, college is a place of learning.
I think we should expect a certain level of ignorance.
I think you should be able to learn from that.
So there's so much to learn.
I think just be a sponge.
I don't even know how to describe that.
There's so much to learn.
And the experiences I've gained are certainly different from other people's, but they're all very, very valuable.
And I can't honestly sit here and tell you that one experience is better than the other.
It's how much you commit to learning from that experience.
Are you the only one who's ever been corps commander and shooting buddy?
I'm one of two.
I try not to bring this up too much, but the other person is Bob Harvey, class of 77.
I think it's right, class of 77.
I believe you're right, yeah.
And he never actually finished his student body president term because he didn't make grades.
I don't bring that up with him.
I'm sure that's a sore subject with him, but he's a very, very nice man and has gotten involved recently, more recently, into really doing a lot of things at this place.
But he's the only other person that's done that.
What happened to your grades these last two years?
If you were to pick up a transcript, you could definitely see when I've become busy.
First semester was low.
All the rest of the semesters had been well over a three-point.
And then that first semester I got Corps Commander, you see a big drop.
And that's okay.
I don't regret that.
You know, it's been up and down since then.
What is your career goal, long range?
Oh, you know, I've really tried to think about that.
I don't know.
I've tried to break it down into some five-year plans and really just try to figure out, well, where is it that I can honestly be in five years?
And I'm comfortable with looking that way.
I know that in five years I'd like to be, you know, getting my master's and doing that stuff.
I would assume at this point business, but I'm also an economics major, so would I do it in economics?
Perhaps.
I don't know.
I would think and consider about going back to law school, though I don't know if that's really what I want to do.
But I feel confident in making decisions about that point.
You know, somebody asked me that when I went into the interview for Enron, and they said, what do you want?
What is it you want to be?
And, you know, in all honesty, it's not the job.
It's the people you work with.
It's the quality of the atmosphere that you're working in.
And you know what?
I'm willing to go anywhere.
I can't say that I've got to be in just this one job because I have never, ever thought that I would be here today.
And I never thought that I would do the things that I've done.
And none of that has come from planning four years in advance.
It's come from working hard and from trying to stay focused on the job you do today.
And usually some of those opportunities present themselves when you work hard at the job you've already got.
And I've been very lucky and very fortunate that somehow along the way, some opportunity presents itself from working hard.
And I believe in that.
It's worked for me.
And so I try to stick with that.
All right.
I've got two questions left.
If you could make a major gift to A&M, let's make believe somebody hands you a million dollars.
Sure.
For what purpose would you want that gift used?
I would definitely commit it to some sort of leadership aspect of this campus.
What leadership aspect, I don't know.
I don't know what I would do because I've had opportunity to be a part of a couple of them.
and I certainly feel a sense of loyalty to the Corps, but at the same time I can't say that I wouldn't make a gift to something else too.
I just think that there's a lot of benefit to this and I think that's a tremendous experience and so it would definitely go someplace that way.
Alright, can you think of some important topics we've not covered?
No, I don't know.
I'm not sure really.
I think one of the
These things I've enjoyed learning lately and I don't honestly know where we're at is evaluating where this campus is in its future and I don't know the answer to that.
I spent a lot of time really trying to work with that this last year and
I may be wrong, I may come back to find out in 10 or 15 years that's not the direction we're heading, but I really think we're in a point of making a very big change in this university.
We have endured some different things that have changed a lot of visioning and a lot of direction setting.
We've got a president right now that's set a direction that's one way, and there are other people that sometimes, not completely, but has some other priorities out there.
Depending on how much that gets pushed, and I'm not saying that's good or bad, but depending on how much that gets pushed will clearly
really make it an impact on what this university has become.
I mean, it's different.
You know, you can't just walk into this university anymore, which is changing the dynamics of the student that comes in here.
It's not just
for lack of a better term a good old boy you know country boy that's coming in here and just wants to enjoy life it's it's very competitive the things that students want are different it's a different generation and so there's so many things I really feel that it's going to be interesting I hope that we can endure some of these changes to remain
or to retain some of the characteristics we hold now.
I value that.
I think a lot of students or former students value that, and I think that's important.
I think it's possible to retain it.
I'm not 100% certain that that's exactly where the school will go.
I mean, I think some of the regional characteristics and stuff like that will retain some of that just by the virtue of, you know, being in this state, being in this part of the country.
I don't know.
It's definitely different.
We're trying to be a top 25 or top 10 university, and I don't know what top 10 means.
You know, call me an economist, which means that you're looking at the efficiency, but whenever you're trying to...